
7. CPU ORGANIZATION.

A Sony SPC700 series is used in the CPU core of the SFX sound source.
it is possible to access and address space of 64K bytes in the SPC
series CPU. Address classification of the memory space is made
according to purpose: and addresses 0000 - 00ff are called page 0
and addresses 0100 - 01ff are called page 1.
In regard to the data in this region, when direct page designation
is carried out by direct page flaq (P) within the program status
word, it is possible to carry out data processing in wide-ranging
addresing modes with a small number of cycles.

Within the CPU there are the universal registers A,X and Y, program
status ward (PSW) of the varius flags, program counter (PC), and
stack pointer (SP).

The A register is operable by the greatest number of commands,
and becomes and 8-bit operation accumulator. When 16-bit 
operations are carried out, it becomes paired with Y register
and becomes the lower lever 8-bit register of the 16-bit
accumulator.
The X and Y registers, in addition to their function as universal
registers, are used in various operations, such as the function
as index register of various index addressing modes, the function
as dual-address command source, destination address register, etc.

In the command set there are single address commands which carry
out arithmetic and logical operations centered in the A register
and dual address commands which can designate random address
within the direct page as source address and destination addresses.

In regard to bit processing diversified by control purpose. Boolean
bit operation commands are applicable to the 8K byte range of
data of addresses 0000 - 1fff. Morever, in regard to the bits
within the total space of the 64K bytes, commads of multiple bit
test and set, test and reset are provided for. For the purpose of
data which must be systematized or in order to carry out data
processing rapidly. It is possible to operate 16-bit data with a
single commad. Addition, subtraction, comparison and transferrance
are possible between two byte of continuous 16-bit data within the
direct page and the paired Y register and A register. In addition
increment and decrement of continuous 16-bit data within the
direct page are possible.

There are multiplication and division commands for the purpose
of rapid data processing and processing of data ina variety of
forms. Multiplication is 8-bit x 8-bit with no sign and is
carried out with the multiplicand stored in the Y register and
the multiplier stored in the A register; the result is entered
into the Y, A 16-bit accumulator. Division is 16bits/8bits with
no sign and carried out with the divident stored in the Y, A 16
bit accumulator and the divisor stored in the X register : the
resulting quotient is entered into the A register and the
remainder is entered intro the Y register.
In the processing of decimal data, there are decimal (addition,
subtraction) correcting commands in regard to the results of
both addition and subtraction.

In regard to branched commands, there are relative branched
commands according to the conditions of the various status
flags, branched commands according to the conditions of set
or reset of random bits with the direct page, etc. In addition,
in regard to looped branched commands, there are comparision
branched commands and subraction branched commands, and for
these there are two types of addressing modes.

In regard to subroutine call commands, there are subroutine
address direct designation three-byte call commands within
the 64K bytes. two-byte call commands for calling subroutines
of specific areas, and 16 portion one-byte call commands using
call table: it is possible to improve byte efficiency through
proper useage in response to the frequency of subroutine use.


